Content for the trigger overrides page (#857)
novuhq/docs: content/docs/platform/integrations/trigger-overrides.mdx

---
title: 'Trigger Overrides'
description: 'Learn how to customize provider behavior using Trigger Overrides in Novu'
---

Trigger overrides allow you to modify the default behavior of specific aspects of a notification trigger, giving you granular control over how messages are delivered across different channels and providers.

## Provider overrides

Provider overrides give you fine-grained control over how messages are delivered by allowing direct configuration of the underlying provider SDKs during the workflow's trigger phase.

This feature is designed for advanced use cases where Novu's default message editor or UI does not expose specific provider capabilities.

Use provider overrides to:
- Access native provider features not surfaced by Novu’s abstraction layer. For example, custom headers in SendGrid, topic messaging in FCM, or Slack blocks.
- Adapt to provider-specific options by injecting parameters that Novu doesn’t yet officially support.
- Configure shared or unique settings across steps without altering templates or workflow logic.

> This mechanism acts as a flexible escape hatch, allowing you to pass deeply nested payloads that align directly with your provider’s native API. It helps decouple workflow behavior from provider-specific implementation details, essential when working across multiple channels like email, push, or chat.

Reviewer: @victorbmlabs - Rewrite this without "escape hatch."

> <Callout type="info">Because overrides interact directly with provider SDKs, it won’t work if it’s misconfigured. Make sure you understand the supported options for each provider before using this feature. </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">Because overrides interact directly with provider SDKs, they won’t work if they're misconfigured. Make sure you understand the supported options for each provider before using this feature. </Callout>
```

### Override structure

Overrides are defined in the `overrides` property of a trigger payload. You can specify configuration values at two levels:

> Step-level: Targets a specific step in the workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Step-level: Targets a specific step in the workflow.
```

- Provider-level: Applies to all steps using a specific provider.

> - Each level serves different use cases and follows a clear order of precedence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each level serves different use cases and follows a clear order of precedence.
```

  const result = await novu.trigger({
    to: {
      subscriberId: "subscriber_unique_identifier",
      firstName: "Albert",
      lastName: "Einstein",
      email: "albert@einstein.com",
      phone: "+1234567890",
    },
    workflowId: "workflow_identifier",
    payload: {
      comment_id: "string",
      post: {
        text: "string",
      },
    },
    overrides: {
      steps: {
        'push-step': {
          providers: {
            fcm: {
              notification: {
                title: 'New Comment',
                body: 'Someone replied to your post!',
                sound: 'default', // Play default system sound
              },
              android: {
                notification: {
                  sound: 'sound_bell' // matches res/raw/sound_bell.mp3
                }
              },
              apns: {
                payload: {
                  aps: {
                    sound: 'notification_bell.caf' // For iOS
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  });
}

run();

```
In this example, only the `push-step` is affected, and only the FCM `title` is overridden for that step.

> #### Provider-level overrides

Reviewer: Is this a provider override at the provider level? Are provider overrides and provider-level overrides different things?

```typescript
import { Novu } from "@novu/api";

const novu = new Novu("<YOUR_SECRET_KEY_HERE>");

async function run() {
  const result = await novu.trigger({
    to: {
      subscriberId: "subscriber_unique_identifier",
      firstName: "Albert",
      lastName: "Einstein",
      email: "albert@einstein.com",
      phone: "+1234567890",
    },
    workflowId: "workflow_identifier",
    payload: {
      comment_id: "string",
      post: {
        text: "string",
      },
    },
    overrides: {
      providers: {
        sendgrid: {
          template_id: "xxxxxxxx", // Make sure this is a string
          trackingSettings: {
            clickTracking: {
              enable: true,
              enableText: false,
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
  });
}

run();

```

This configuration affects every step in the workflow that uses SendGrid, unless a step-level override provides a more specific value.

## Next steps

Learn how to override specific settings for each provider in our provider-specific override guides:
- SendGrid overrides
- SES overrides
- FCM overrides

> - Slack overrides

Reviewer 2: I believe we need to hide this until we have them available?

Author: Yeah. I was thinking of adding (Coming soon) on each of them. However, I have removed it for now
